let's welcome Ben Chestnut Co and
founder of of MailChimp um so this is
very excited to me Ben thank you so much
for coming and joining joining thousands
of us in cyberspace here about time you
invited me yeah I've been asking Ben
over Twitter for years to come and I
think his kids got older they had Sports
and spring break and it's hard to lure
someone from Atlanta sometimes although
you never know every once in a while
someone has to have a meeting in the
Bary or Paris and and they'll come
um but I'm I'm super excited STS finally
align and I can be here with you and
your audience and I want a copy of that
video I'm going to play that every
morning just to get me
going you should you may miss the office
though when you see
it do you miss the office by the way I
do dearly miss it yeah what's Your Gut
on all the off office stuff where where
will we be has MailChimp gone made any
formal decisions and where will you be
at the end of next year in an office do
you have have you figured that out I I
really like what Patrick holl said
recently on Twitter I think that you
know when things do get back to normal
and they will six months after that
you'll look back and and things will
look like nothing ever
happened fa Blind Faith that it'll get
back to normal I have family that was
stationed in China for work and they
said it got back to normal it's
definitely back to normally even in
Europe even like all the entrepreneurs I
know in France it's like 90% right but
um all right so no thinking of uh
getting back to normal is sort of how
you're thinking as a leader right for
all of this I it makes sense to me
um so we will run out of time because
this is such a great conversation but
we'll try to take a few questions so hit
QA here at the bottom of the zoom and
ask some and we'll definitely we'll
definitely get to some and work on a few
um but I'm super excited um I think I've
been I was trying to think last night
whether I'm a 3X or 4X MailChimp
customer um but it's fun to there's apps
we use every day right but there's not
that many times you've been a three or
4X customer and it's fun to see it and
then MailChimp to me is so interesting
for Founders here because it took me by
surprise how big it was um maybe it's
because you didn't raise 11 rounds of
venture capital which we'll touch into
and bang your chest on on Tech crunch
every week with another huge round um or
maybe it's because I wasn't a marketer
by training right and I just grabbed an
app here or there but but MailChimp
several times I think took all of us
surprise and is kind of a hero company
because of that so I want to do I want
to go back in time a little bit to the
very very beginning but to me the most
fun I want to jump around the time of
it's okay and talk about breakout right
so MailChimp is I don't you I don't know
whether you've announced your numbers
you don't have to comment but around a
billion AR either side it's a lot of ARS
whatever it is it's very large but it's
a category nominally with a lot of
vendors right a lot of vendors tiny
minute they probably pop up every hour
there's someone with some specialized at
least on email we'll talk about getting
bigger and into American animation so
what was like the 10x feature when
whenever it was a million in Revenue 2
million what let MailChimp break out for
Real uh from the
competition it had to be premium it was
uh 10 years in 2010 2009 is when we
launched our Premium plan yeah
everything took off it was it was this
Rocket Ride right after that I mean we
went from I don't know tens of thousands
of users to a million in the first year
and then it doubled and doubled and
doubled after that it was it's it's been
a crazy Rocket Ride from there so that's
interesting so before you went premium
which was like 200 Nish is that right
let's talk about that a free plan we
didn't even have a free trial before
that you had to pay and you were
nominally founded in 2001 right so so
but we'll talk about this so mil chimp
wasn't is overnight success story by any
by any stretch of the definition but you
launched and the first two years before
you went fremium do you remember it took
you two years because two years is a
long time as a Founder too right how big
were you were just but you still managed
to get to a couple million in Revenue
but you were not a differentiated tool
at that point it didn't feel like it I
was eating off the McDonald's value meal
I was still eating Ramen that's all I
remember of those days oh is that true
even two years in yeah I you said I
think my revenue is in the hundreds of
thousands oh wow okay so premium which
we have and so that is interesting
because and then why did it work were
were were people because you know
premium alone isn't always a marketing
strategy is it um you have to have
traffic you have to have a denominator
you have have people searching for you
and finding you so did you even know
like and and to me mail chimp's
interesting because I would think of it
as lightly viral right if you're on the
free plan you see the mailchip at the
bottom if you take a look at the two
field or whatever you can see that it
came or there's URLs but it's not zoom
viral right it's not that real time so
why did it why did premium work besides
that it worked did you even know well I
think um I think it was just a perfect
timing I think there was a crisis going
on it was it was 2009 we were still
really uh from the recession and um
people needed it badly small businesses
badly needed help and there we were with
the solution a little bit like Zoom a
much smaller scale uh Zoom but we were
there with the right tool at the right
time and what was when you launched it
not to go too much into detals but is
interesting because it it worked right
and it worked fast it worked in 30 days
or 60 days you the conversions happened
right your paid business went up
immediate dramatically quickly right it
was immedi had server outages people
were running around like chickens with
their heads cut off I mean it was crazy
I was what did you do me but I was I was
getting flashbacks from like the AOL
dialup uh issues where no one could dial
in you know everyone was complaining
about that I was like oh my God I'm
AOL uh nothing nothing would stay alive
it seemed
like oh man um yeah um and then and what
was the first if you remember what was
the first I hate this word but what was
the first choke or what was your first
first point where you had to convert to
paid that actually worked like did you
did you test anything or what was what
was that Insight when did you know when
to throttle the the free folks back when
you first launched it's a little bit
weird with small businesses because
sometimes with small businesses they
need like five years to figure it out
you know how it is it's a grind and so
we never really found the one choke what
what we found was that they just need
lots of time to find their way and
everything we tried just really didn't
seem to work um sometimes they just
needed to get to you know 30% of small
businesses die in two years 50% die in
five years so it's like our sales
pipeline it needs to be five to 10 years
that's that's the pipeline for small
business it felt like at the time and so
all we really did was give them more
time um that was really the only kind of
choker point that we had to to make
people they would they would shut down
their business but they would keep their
free mail account alive they'd get a job
they'd learn how business actually runs
they take that learning quit start their
business up again and then with their
list
yeah yeah but it was really just once
their list grew to about 2,000 that's
when they felt like it was more it was
less of like a forcing mechanism
mechanism but more like a celebratory
ride of Passage like if they could get
their audience to 2000 and they had to
start paying they felt proud of that we
saw tweets of people saying I'm finally
a paid MailChimp customer oh wow yeah
yeah serly I had an eye openening moment
years ago when I first met with someone
at Survey Monkey when it was Tiny and
they said we don't count churn when we
lose a customer because they may come
back in their next job with their next
thing we don't actually count that we
don't count that as churn we wait some
they waited a mammoth amount of time in
the early days probably not today as a
public company how do you think about
that sort of churn because you didn't
really lose that customer right um even
though the revenue paused do you have a
nuanced view of churn at the very low
end of the market at the very low end of
the market absolutely and a very nuanced
view of arpu as well we kind of want
lower arpo because we want a larger uh
denominator uh we want more and more
small users than we do very very big
users and so when you're when you're the
co and you're I would imagine at this
point you've got a few dashboards at
MailChimp how do you think about the
goals for those for those because I you
know the smaller the customer usually
the higher the churn right that that's
the law especially the very small
businesses right the T the onep person
shops it's hard right do you do you
still set do what do you see on your
dashboard in terms of CH and how do you
how do you how do you incent the team or
drive the team to do better in those
tiny tiny customers terms of sure well
what you do is you say what what are the
industries where our small business
customers are really techsavvy and they
really push the limits of innovation
inside of nail CH and we we didn't say
where the most Revenue comes from we
said where do they push our limits um
because that's what drives us it's
innovating and then we said well it's
e-commerce customers so we really look
at just a few slices of our of our
audience and we say what's going to help
them sell more and those are small
customers they're they're tiny but they
can make millions of dollars after
sending every email campaign they're
making hundreds of thousands or millions
of dollars every time they get send so
we we focus a little bit more on those
and any technology that we get out of
serving those sort of high-end High
Innovation high impact customers it
trickles down to the small businesses
it's interesting that I guess that's
obvious that so e even back when you in
2009 when you converted e-commerce was
sort of your your Northstar customer uh
was was folks selling um and then
MailChimp is almost like your Erp isn't
it it's certainly your marketing
automation but it's almost more right
your list can be everything uh as a tiny
vendor right I can walk through a
restaurant and I can see someone or at a
coffee shop they're using MailChimp
they're using it like a CR we see them
with their database the MailChimp
audience uh screen upli it's less of the
sending and it's more of the analyzing
the data of their customer base for sure
and like just one last question on this
and then I let's hit the next one but so
the so the the step function was going
to premium two years charging everybody
the second they give give me your credit
card no chance for a small business to
to get to know you to see if to see if
they want to fall in love right premium
worked but what was what what what was
the surprise and Delight feature people
back then loved MailChimp right and it
wasn't just the chimp and the cute ads
and I can't remember because I I didn't
know nothing about email I just found
MailChimp on a Google search which is
probably our next slide I want to talk
about but what was your surprise and
Delight why did they love you did you
have a hero feature what was the what
was that special special product moment
or feature I I would the real stressed
out entrepreneur in those early days and
I was just constantly micromanaging
everybody in the office like you got to
get this done got these goals I have a
gan chart of everything and I noticed U
nobody wanted to stay late they they
just weren't inspired but one day people
were staying late and I was like what
are you doing and they would hide their
screens every time I looked and then
later I found out what they were doing
was they were planting Easter eggs and
that's that's what got engineers and
techies inspired to actually work late
and I said you know what as long as we
hit hit our goal do all the Easter eggs
you want and so people start to infuse
personality uh into the app they started
to build an app that they wanted to use
and it turned out small business uh
customers running a small business is
dismal I've learned over the years and
they really need like array of sunshine
some sense of hope uh some kind of humor
in the app and so I think that was sort
of the that was the thing that kind of
was the key unlock for mimp in the early
days just
Personality yeah make it accessible
right make it make it fun and
been try yeah we've we've we've had uh
I've seen news headlines where we take
down a billboard of Freddy and people
complain they say that was my only joy
in life we've reduced the amount of
Freddy in the app because people were
saying it's little it's taken out too
much space on mobile and everything and
we've had we get a Dage of complaints
you know I I had one small business
customer saying he was my only
joy that is a sign of something uh
something special um yeah and then this
one this is just one of your Billboards
this isn't the one
but belch's always been bootstrapped
which we can dig into but that that
especially means every dollar is
scrutinized but in the beginning that a
force of necessity right for for years
and then it becomes part of your
mentality and then I remember one day I
was driving up 101 in the Bay Area and I
saw I think that the one on the right
I'm color blind the yellow one right the
classic one and I'm like mchip must be
like how can they afford these like you
don't even I didn't even know what
Billboards cost back then right I
shouldn't I know today they are cheap
but like back in the day as a Founder
I'm like oh my God H but but but still
you were buying Billboards and now I get
it it's Tech your C you wanted to expand
into Tech right but what did you learn
about brand because all you had was that
Chimp on the 101 in the Bara and people
people this display ad and brand
advertising it's non-intuitive to
Founders right it is non-intuitive
um why did you do that relatively early
and what were your learnings about how
to build on your brand well I was always
really cheap uh always experimenting
with different kinds of media I was
doing podcasts when they first came out
um uh really just for aord on an iPod on
an iPod yeah yeah it's the name yeah uh
and so and in Billboards was just one of
the things we always tinkered with we
have a culture of tinkering and in
experimentation at nelin and uh the
thing about Billboards and branding is
one thing is I always wanted something
tangible with our brand I everyone
interacts digitally but you need
something to feel so I always have like
melching toys something that I on your
desk that you can feel or see that's
that makes your brain real when you can
see it out in the real world like you
saw it in your car on i111 and then um
with the Billboards I I had a competitor
we we would listen to their analyst
calls every quarter um and they said
that they open up a San Francisco office
and that was going to really stick it to
us because they could have a physical
Office right there in the heart of
Silicon Valley and they would have
everybody come to their office and I
told my team you know what why don't you
set up a billboard across the street
from their office so that was
that might have been the one I saw right
thankfully thankfully my team saw that
that was kind of a jerk move and so they
said we like the idea of billboards we
won't do that we're going to put them up
and somebody put one up at across from
this building I never heard of called
Mone me and I'd never heard of it at the
time and they they did it right before
Apple's dubdub DC and then right after
that was google.io and we it just went
viral people took pictures of that
mysterious monkey posted it to this new
thing called Instagram and it just kind
of went viral from new
so w I mean I guess the lesson is care
about your brand uh try to get it
physical not just digital only when you
can afford it uh always be tinkering and
um you know if if you're always
tinkering then when they really become
available like CBS and all the people
that do outdoor once they saw us buy a
couple then they just went nuts said
we've got all these other properties how
about the highway how about this how
about and then then it just kind of grew
from there and what do you and then into
this like brand brand is really it's a
funny thing it creeps up on us as
Founders doesn't it because we kind of
make fun of it in the early days we
think at least we used to we think
that's a Pepsi thing a John Scully thing
brand is we the last thing you want to
do in the early days is hire a marketer
that just wants to work on your brand
and then you realized they were right
like like B chimp has this brand and
what do when when does that work how do
you know when to invest in brand versus
leads versus the other thing and how do
you how do you protect your brand today
like because it's always it's always at
risk right we we'll talk a little bit
maybe more about Doom that we talked
about the other day right but uh how
what have you learned about brand and
when does it matter it matters always
it's it's what I was a a a designer at
heart so brand meant a lot to me from
the from the early get-go I mean I
started wanting to build a global brand
so I might be the wrong person to ask
about that well maybe I wanted to from
day one yeah maybe um but the thing is
like it makes people uh loyal they make
it makes people love I mean you I don't
I've always said I don't shoot for
loyalty I sh for love uh I don't I don't
want people to just blindly use my propy
I want them to use it out of its Merit
but you do want people to kind of just
love that brand and it's it's it's
actually the most economical marketing
you do because it it goes viral people
tell their friends about it and that's
the cheapest marketing uh that you could
pay for yeah for sure um so this slide
you guys put together who am I see in
here what's going on in this slide uh
can so that's me and my co-founder uh so
that's my mother ran a hair salon in the
kitchen I couldn't get an action shot of
her actually doing her her work uh
that's just Thanksgiving that's just
Thanksgiving um and uh over on the right
that's uh my co-founder Dan he's the
tall one uh and that's his father's
Bakery so we both had entrepreneurial
families and we both uh grew up in the
kitchen watching their businesses uh
grow and then ultimately fail uh and
that's what drives us today we really
want to empower small businesses that's
DNA of MailChimp
um so that they don't uh fail like our
our parents did yeah I hear and they
failed while you were you saw them fail
you say you see them and you can see
that it's not just a business that fails
it's a person it's a family and the
linger for Generations yeah when we were
chatting before this this I I heard some
of that linger in your thinking right
there's there is this there's this
conservatism is the wrong word but
there's this fear of Doom that we
chatted about maybe it tacks back to
your
childhood um it's interesting that it
that it inspired you to be an
entrepreneur right because these
feelings linger with us don't they they
really do and they also kind of tell you
that doom and despair might be the norm
so you just have to kind of marching uh
you know everyone's talking about 2020
is a dumpster fire and it really is and
sometimes I ask people what if it's
always been a dumpster fire we're just
now noticing
it um it's entrepreneurialism is about
one setback after another isn't it yeah
and you told me that when we were chat
in before which which floored me a
little bit that even at MailChimp scale
you have Doom thoughts you worry that
the company could could fail right I
felt I feel like my my SAS learning is
that after 10 million or so in Revenue
you can go into a terminal decline right
but it could take a decade right I mean
let's look at Oracle and companies like
even if Oracle never releases a new
product we want it'll be 2050 before
those last Oracle servers are shut down
um some data center but you have Doom
fear still today today you still have
Doom fear I I told somebody that you
know I I still build this way we could
die tomorrow we could die tomorrow and
then somebody told me no you really
can't you most likely the plane won't
crash like this the plane will just fly
to a slow kind of embarrassing descent
and I just thought worse than then it
crashing yeah yeah I have that that that
is the attitude that I think is
necessary I mean was isn't there a book
about that only the paranoid survive or
something lines there is what that means
like I think we all take away slightly
different meaning from that from that
title right uh that might have been more
about competition killing you than Doom
right uh and
uh it is it's funny that the Intel you
know when we were growing up I thought
Hardware was the hard one and software
was the easy one but it's backwards
these Hardware Cy look at phones
Hardware Hardware phone but the Cycles
are so fast but MailChimp will last 30
years at this point if you don't totally
screw it up Ben uh software is harder
than Hardware which doesn't even still
make sense to me uh um but uh Hardware
is ephemeral right but software if you
do it right look at the decacorns right
look at these companies if you do
software right it'll last 40 50 years
and if I was running mil chimp like I
I'm jealous I not literally mean jealous
but it's up to you right it's your job
now to build a 50 plus year platform and
we're not going to have that AOL
experience right if we do it right
that's right it's like s-curves the
first scurve is like the fastest and the
tallest and then there like lots of lots
of subsequent smaller harder escs I look
at some of those software companies that
have lasted over the years and it's like
constant reinvention is what I see in
their numbers right yeah and there what
which phase I I wanted to do a little
bit more in the early stage for what
time but which tell me about the phases
of MailChimp because today we're sort of
this we're even more than a marketing
automation platform right we're
MailChimp is like a marketing platform
we've got social and images and timing
and Ai and ML and all of these things
but but MailChimp stayed email only for
a long time didn't it are we in the
second phase of MailChimp or the third
and what what did you learn what were
those evolutions and why did they take a
while versus a year well I I always felt
like uh you know I read crossing the
chasm a long time ago by Jeffrey Moore
and he said that a lot of people want to
cross that Chasm it's important to cross
it but they cross it too soon and I said
oh okay I'll just dwell a little bit
longer uh and I think that that's kind
of the advice uh if you read between the
lines it's like really Master what you
do and so I took that seriously and I
mastered email and then it wasn't until
I started talking to customers out in
the Midwest you know what is it that
milch's brand means to you and they told
me it's marketing it's not just email
get out of email expand uh and that was
when I was inspired by that it wasn't
like a strategic like a genius strategic
decision that I made it was talking to
customers and they said for you know
dear God expand sprinkle that na Magic
on other marketing channels so that's
kind of what took us so long and so I I
tell my employees we're in act two of
the business act one was great it took
us really far it's not anything else we
we've got to evolve over here yeah so I
didn't you're not in act three I didn't
miss one right act one femil nailing it
probably lasted 15 years though act one
right some part better part of 15 years
right uh depend how you count depending
when you start right we'll still be
miling act one for a long time until act
two makes up you know what 30 at least
30% of our revenue is My Philosophy then
then really act two has taken old and is
do you because I want to ask about
proportionality right how big that that
those product extensions need to be um
do you do you think of that as just a
the same customer and maybe more revenue
from the time or do you think of this as
accessing different customers and that
has to be big because mum's already big
right you can't add something that adds
2% to your Revenue because it doesn't
move the needle does it yeah it's it's
maybe not so much a different customer
maybe a little bit like the whole world
is skewing more to e-commerce in in a
sense it is more of a little bit of a
different customer but but the product
is more sophisticated and it's going to
require different uh amounts of sales
and so we're into that like how do we
broaden a self- serve app that just
quickly sells like one point solution
called email that's kind of easy but
when you start to sell multiple channels
across the whole platform that's going
to take more assistance and handholding
so yeah it's going to take an evolution
will right I've I've never talked to a
sales rep rep did MIP have any sales
people today did have any sales people
two years ago not two years ago no small
little teams that that dabble a little
bit but uh you know we just hired a
cheap customer officer
uh starting in a couple of weeks so yeah
CH a foot change there may be there may
be a few hundred a few hundred sales
reps at MailChimp next year uh that'll
be an interesting Journey right there
won't it everything changes yeah um so
let's not talk about this is a fun side
let's not talk about the dot bubble
because there may be a folks on the zoom
that may not know what a do com is but
um let but let's do talk about two
things on this first of all B chimp was
well was founded I know we had maybe a
different slide here we might have
missed it it was founded in nominally in
2001 um after this but it took you six
years to get up the nerve to leave your
agency and then another two years to get
to the product Market fit like how did
you how did you Sur mentally get through
this so long how did you survive that
phase as a as a
entrepreneur well the the sixe slog of
being an agency isn't that hard it's
just survival the question was how do we
break through and become something great
how do we really Thrive then so we got
focused on you know passive recurring
income the answer software how do we
switch from services to software that
the Mantra at the time and um it was
very hard to let go of $50,000 projects
because we thought maybe we would get
$50 a month SAS clients that's let go
and the the mental trick everybody asked
me a lot of people go through this and
they're like how did you make the leap
and it was really simple for us I said
every every month at the end of the
month whatever monthly Revenue we made
for mailen we cash it out and stick it
in our pockets so we would split it
three ways and you would feel like you
it goes from like a a couple hundred to
a thousand to a couple thousand and you
have start to say whoa whoa this whole
software thing it's got legs let's try
that and so that was the thing that kind
of mentally made us all right we got to
switch from services to software that's
the future so it was a little trick and
we spent that money at the RAC trck we
we drove fast cars around room in an
oval uh well it is you were I I think
there's some ways you weren't lucky one
ways that sounds like you were lucky is
that because a lot of folks want to go
from an agency or a Services business to
software they see it they're running a
Services business they get really good
at the industry and they're like they
need this they need this specialized
email this specialized mapping tool but
you were able to do both at least long
enough to get Beyond race money you were
able to do both somehow and get a couple
thousand doll a month so you could you
could build a spreadsheet and say hey in
12 months this will eclipse the profits
are agency it's not everyone has up
other folks get get scared right it's
hard the agency's doing five six million
but there's a lot of people working
there and giving that up is can be it's
a chicken it can be a chicken in the egg
feeling for some folks right that's true
that's true I mean we were three people
so it's not like we left behind 10
people to your point um and it's also
not like we cut off all of that business
either all of those service clients that
we had that we were charging $50,000 a
month for internets and websites we went
to them and and we sold MailChimp to
them I mean they we still kept that
actually worked they still wanted they
wanted to they would buy another product
they would tuss me out most of them most
of them hated me and cussed me out for
ditching them on the website I see but
but still I mean I relented I you know I
I no I persisted on selling them and I
and I come my first few customers that
way now related to that I I tried
there's not enough I tried to look at
like all the public bootstrapped Cloud
companies there's there's not that many
right um but I tried to and look talk to
other Founders and triy to figure out
what's the downside to bootstrapping
right other you know it's not really
it's really I think that I tried there's
not enough companies I think it's time
and I think the average if you look at
alassian as an example and qualtrix
because those are you know they did
bootstrap Until the End both of them
took three to four years longer than
similar companies now the internet was
at a different time it was slower right
until the cloud took off but when folks
are trying to make that trade-off and
we'd all like to bootstrap who wants to
sell 90% of their company I mean no no
one except what at least not once you've
been through life right but if you if
you have to decide do you agree that
that sounds roughly right that the it's
time in the early days is the trade-off
if you had to advise other Founders yeah
it's it's basically
time yeah because it feels like you had
time at MailChimp in the early days you
had time right that you started here
when the world was slow and the world
had blown up and it's terrible but you
get time when the world stops right time
to evolve time to get through crisis
time to build your brand time to really
find the thing that's going to be really
10x not time to kind of sit on your
front porch and sit mint julips uh you
know but time to like build your
business strong build the roots strong
yeah yeah so just because you are the a
hero for many bootstrappers right if a
Founder came to you today pretty
competitive market a little bit worried
right and they just graduated from demo
days and could raise five or six million
with little work um and they had eight
competitors right and times clicking
would you tell them to still what would
your gut what just that what those facts
what would your gut gut as you know one
of the most successful bootstrappers of
all time what would you tell that
founder it's their choice not mine it
worked for me to bootstrap uh I tell
them about the situation I couldn't get
funding even if I wanted to after the
dot bust I was in Atlanta so don't don't
use me as a hero I'm no hero just uh and
I tell them to keep in touch I have no
advice for their deck for their pitch
deck I'm say I tell them I'm probably
the worst person to ask about your D she
never had to do one never done one um
and so I told will be the first one but
I tell them when you have your first
growth hurdles when you have trouble
come to me I I will you know come sit on
my couch uh I will share growth stories
with you all the pain and suffering and
doom and despair that I've been through
uh I'll help you out there all right let
me make sure we hit because we'll run
out of time I hit at least two things I
want to chat about one just ties to the
early days which
is Crisis right and doom and um we just
hit the whatever the dotom boom then you
talked about MailChimp took advantage of
the 2009 downturn right which more
people remember to do fremium right
right to come out of it and I've seen
actually a lot of e-commerce companies I
found did that right after March right
they launched gdpr plan I mean not GDP
we want to talk about that but um you
know covid plans that actually worked
right to help their small customers but
you reminded me with gdpr and a bunch of
other things you've had like four or
five almost existential crises at milch
including me the shutdown of email in
the early days right and that it doesn't
end and that I had hadn't thought about
gdpr was almost an existential threat
that's the whole business a part of it
right so share some of those learnings
and let's talk about GD bear because it
never ends right GD Paar was another
Potential Threat to the whole marketing
business and email right so it never
ends and what have you learned there
that's what I mean Doom is always
waiting around the corner as soon as I
walk around out this door it's waiting
for me yeah gdpr was you know it's it
changed everything uh for us we had to
redo our infrastructure to comply with
it um I could have taken it very
negatively
um as the capitalist that I am like darn
them but but I said you know let's think
about our customers our customers badly
need to comply it's confusing to them
they just want to know help me comply
MailChimp and so that's the attitude we
took and we spooled up a team and they
got it done uh is is it a happy ending
no gdpr really hurts marketing companies
financially it hurts um but the Silver
Lining is that you know it built a lot
of trust in our brand with a lot of
customers out there uh we helped them
comply with the regulation so they trust
us and we did something that really is
um you you would think it's a conflict
of interest for us it hurts us to comply
uh but we did it anyway to help small
businesses that's how much we care about
them and then also it gave us the code
base so now you know California launches
theirs and all the other states and
everywhere else and municipalities
launch their own uh privacy regulations
we kind of have the codebase to help us
scale that out um so become compliance
tool after I'm sorry you you become a
compliance tool you help right you solve
this problem right is that is that does
it do the customers know is that a
little bit of a moat for MailChimp now
are is being better at regulatory stuff
a Moote or are the customers not really
aware is it does it not rise to Mo level
I I think that this sort of stuff is is
not quite Mo level I'd like to believe
that it's Mo level um yeah I don't know
you know how it is a lot of startups
don't care about that don't care about
following those rules if everyone had to
force don't everyone was forced to
follow the rules then it would be a
great Moe yeah are do you think are
there any Moes at MailChimp Moes an
interesting question in a lot of SAS
products isn't it um besides brand are
there other modes you have I don't want
to lose my list right but even the list
is exportable from mimp right um yeah I
what is is is there set remote I don't
want one there we probably have one if I
had my chief strategy officer here he'd
probably be quick to remind me we have
plenty of Moes uh think about our
Enterprise Value Ben
um but I'm telling you my attitude is I
don't really want to mod I I just want
to keep running faster this my speed is
my only mode just stay ahead of the
curve listen as hard as I can to
customers and keep adapting crisis after
crisis just
adapt yeah well let's seeit Rel that
let's hit at least one last topic before
we run out of time because I when we
chatted before I found it really
interesting which is what you've done
with AI and ml um because these buzzword
outside of certain areas right facial
recognition and things that are
interesting right but it it's mail
chimp's interesting because you take a
product that back in the day was
relatively static I I'll write my
campaign I upload my images then maybe I
see a Time Warp a few other cool
features I had send um and you you you
you've bought some teams and added some
technologies so that it works and what
does AI ml mean for Founders right when
is it not a buzzword and but the idea
that my email and my marketing General
could be automatically generated and ab
tested did and improve like the ROI
especially e-commerce can be insane
right if that can increase my
click-through rates five even 5%
whatever it is it's it's crazy so what
what's real here and what have you
learned about Ai and ml well thank you
maybe that's my moat maybe oh it's maybe
yeah it ca by the way it came from
fremium it came from wanting to help
small businesses and then what that what
that has led to is millions of small
businesses importing their lists and
that has led to four billion email
addresses and trillions of interactions
at those email addresses have so we know
a little bit about what makes better
marketing and what gets sales so we're
Ai and ml to me is like first of all
just parsing the data and then and
recommending the next action so yeah we
made an acquisition a couple of years
ago in Sawa we pulled them into
MailChimp and yeah it's called our
creative assistant and it uses machine
learning and uh what it does is it it it
looks at all of our users and it
recommends how to design your email
campaign but then it takes it a step
further and says gosh you've got like a
bajillion different size formats you've
got to worry about now let us go ahead
and make a carousel ad in Facebook for
you let us go ahead and make a a Twitter
card let us go ahead and resize all of
that for you and it makes it look really
beautiful at the same time so it's just
to to me Ai and ml is really just about
parsing crap tons of data from premium
and doing something useful for our small
business customers and what we've all
been you know trying to do things for
for a decade what's what's what's the
step function is there something really
different today beyond the buzzwords
what can you do today with AML that you
couldn't do in 2015 or 2016 what's
what's truly
different it it speeds things up it it
it's just it allows small businesses to
be everywhere at at once they have to be
on 247 how do you do that when you're
busy running your business you know you
can't be there sending marketing
campaigns and resizing them all day but
this technology helps to resize and
automatically push those campaigns out
even while they're sleeping
got it um all right maybe one last
question because we will run out of time
and then I will in case there's
something you want to hit let me make
sure I I leave one last uh thought but
these are like really weird times in the
cloud right I mean we have 40%
unemployment we're we're working from
home um and yet some folks are
benefiting right clear clearly from this
from from living in the cloud like a
science fiction novel and then there's
other folks that are decimated right
travel and and events but you've lived
this for folks the middle I call them
the covid impacted right their business
is is hurting because especially if they
sell the
smbs but they're not dying what's your
advice to them right they don't have all
the answers they didn't get a big boost
like like a Shopify or a zoom what's
your advice having done this five times
I would you tell the co impacted um when
it's tough but not not over any any any
any best advice from these Doom
experiences yeah don't pause don't pause
don't pause
pivot don't Rel keep keep persisting and
keep trying new things uh don't stop so
you I've heard you say that don't pause
pivot it is it's it's it's it sounds
really good right but what is it really
what is it really because if you if you
dissect it some folks would say don't
pivot stay the course right the the E
like your office the economy will be
back so what do you really you don't
really mean drop your product um you
mean something different uh you know we
have a local restaurant that serves
amazing hamburgers uh to go there all
the time they can't serve that right now
so what do they do they deliver but you
can't deliver hamburgers that's not very
scalable they deliver family meals they
they took that BR beef they turn it into
meatloaf and mashed potatoes sow french
fries I got mashed and I can serve my
entire family every night so that's it's
an example of pivoting they didn't
relent they just kept experimenting and
trying new things there's still a
restaurant you know um so that's all I
mean and for for us during all of the
different crises it was all about get in
front of customers and talk to as many
as you can and find out how to be the
most useful to them even at MailChimp we
pivoted a little bit ourselves we were
we were working on a big gigantic
product in e-commerce and we said no no
no no narrow it down get all of these
people who are you know unemployed right
now and trying to sell their hot sauce
Grandma's hot sauce recipe you know or
their pilates class and help them build
give them a domain name help them build
a landing page and put a damn buy button
on there and help them make some money
so we're you know we're pivoting
ourselves a little bit there focusing on
some of those landing pages with buy
buttons will be we'll be launching real
soon so that's what I don't pause uh you
know pivot and like um so we should
almost break there but just one tactical
question I will ask you if this one last
thing you want to share and then we'll
break but so all you've compressed a
your your pivot was going even deeper in
e-commerce since March 15th right
bringing out buy doing this whole Suite
to help even more even though you've
been e-commerce since day one which I
hadn't thought about till this right how
do you um how do you when you add
something new how do you communicate to
that customers if even if maybe it's
something they weren't expecting I
wasn't expecting MailChimp to be an
automation Suite marketing automation
Suite I might not have been expecting
MailChimp to do even more in e-commerce
right with stripe integration I know I
think it's more complicated than you
think how do you how do you share this
with your customers without overwhelming
them and if maybe they weren't expecting
that from you right they weren't
expecting you to go in these
areas email helps did you that would
answer other way it does help
communication and emails helps but also
we we're relying a lot on our partners a
lot of our small business bus I'd love
to believe that small business
entrepreneurers log into MailChimp and
do all of their marketing a lot of them
rely on Partners agencies and partners
and creative agencies yeah and we have
to really communicate to them everything
that we're doing yeah we miss for folks
that don't work in the space in EC you
miss how how important agencies are
right they're the ones doing the
deployment for so many things in
marketing and e-commerce I I don't know
how to do this right um and uh manyways
they're the customer right at least
they're the initial C you have two
customers don't you yeah yeah you know
you take those take your clients out for
dinner and then U you know when they
drink a beer you know you say why did
you choose nail Che and they'll name all
the features and why and why they love
you and then let them drink a little bit
more and they say why though why why why
and then they'll finally after the sixth
time you ask they'll say you know I
don't know my agency signed my agency
signed up for me CH and then you to the
heart of it it's like a I I gotta go
talk to the agency now yeah yeah and do
you have um do you have like in the in
the earliest say do do you Market to the
agencies differently do you have a team
just working on agency enabl and all
that sort of stuff or is that or is that
too nuanced one of the things you can
rely on a Cool brand for many many years
and then the agcy want to be cool too so
they're going to reand and over time you
have to get uh you know systematic about
it and intentional and build a program
around and that's something that we've
been doing the last couple of years yeah
well it's cool Ben this was incredible
is there anything anything I missed that
you wanted to hit or chat about at the
very end no I hope all the entrepreneurs
out there uh you know see us and and
recognize we are transitioning from act
one to act two so uh watches I'm excited
let's continue the discussion about act
two I think this is one of the great
case studies right MailChimp the the
learning the premium doing it
bootstrapped and then taking depending
on how we count 12 years to go to act
two right whether we start in 2007 2009
2001 it's a slow it's a slow roll to act
to right it's a slow rooll to get to 10
billion in Revenue characterize it as
slow you can characterize me like making
lots of money deliberate yeah lots of
lots of money yeah so I want I want to I
want to track the next 10 years uh for
fun as a as a fan and as a case study
right it's going to be a fun case study
to see how MailChimp evolves on these
two vectors so we will keep pastoring
you Ben to share your learnings over the
next 10 years uh on on phase two so
thank you again for the time this has
been uh this has been tremendous and
thanks to everyone for tuning in yeah
lot of fun
thanks